h1. Introduction

Rails plugin which simplifies adding money and currency attributes to
ActiveRecord models. Uses money gem by RubyMoney.

h1. Installation

Install the plugin:

<pre>
  script/plugin install git://github.com/kammerer/has_money.git
</pre>

h1. Usage

h2. Currency field:

<pre><code>
class Foo < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_currency :currency
  validates_currency :currency, :in => ["EUR", "PLN"]
end

foo = Foo.new
foo.currency = "EUR"
foo.currency # -> Money::Currency.new("EUR")

foo.currency = Money::Currency.new("PLN") 
foo.currency # -> Money::Currency.new("PLN")
</code></pre>

Uses single database column called <code>currency</code> (string).

h2. Money and currency fields:

<pre><code>
class Bar < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_money :price
  validates_money :price, :greater_than => 0, :currency => { :in => ["EUR", "PLN"] }
end

bar = Bar.new
bar.price_currency = "EUR"
bar.price = 5
bar.price # -> Money.new(500, "EUR")

bar.price = Money.new(1000, "PLN")
bar.price # -> Money.new(2.5, "EUR")

bar.price_currency = "PLN"
bar.price # -> Money.new(1000, "PLN") assuming 1 EUR == 4 PLN
</code></pre>

Uses two database columns:

  * <code>price</code> (integer)
  * <code>price_currency</code> (string)

Money validation options:

  * <code>:greater_than</code>
  * <code>:greater_than_or_equal</code>
  * <code>:less_than</code>
  * <code>:less_than_or_equal</code>
  * <code>:between</code>

All options except <code>:between</code> expects amount of money in main units (i.e. euros or dollars, not cents) as a value. <code>:between</code> expects
a range.

h2. Multiple money fields with the same currency:

<pre><code>
class Baz
  has_currency :currency, :for => [:min_price, :max_price]
  has_money :min_price, :with_currency => :currency
  has_money :max_price, :with_currency => :currency
end
</code></pre>

Uses three database columns:

  * <code>min_price</code> (integer)
  * <code>max_price</code> (integer)
  * <code>currency</code> (string)

h1. TODOs

 * tests for ActiveRecord style validations

